README.md, before:

# SARS-CoV-2 Recombination Detection Workflow using RIPPLES

RIPPLES is a program to detect recombination events in large mutation annotated trees (MAT). This repo contains a workflow for running RIPPLES on Google Cloud Platform.

<br>

### Setup Google Cloud Platform Account and Service Account Keys
Please see GCP setup docs here: [GCP Setup Docs](docs/gcp_setup.md)
___

## Recombinant Detection Workflow
Currently the entire recombination pipeline, with ranking, exists at the pre-built public docker image.

The Dockerfile also contains all the necessary installs to run the fill pipeline, and thus the entire workflow can be completed within a Docker shell and the results will be saved locally inside the shell and on remote GCP storage bucket at the specified location when the pipeline completes.


Launch the Docker shell with the following two commands.

- Put your service account key file in the corresponding location or update the location in the command below:
```
KEY=~/.config/gcloud/<key_file.json>
docker run -it -e GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/tmp/keys/<key_file.json> -v ${KEY}:/tmp/keys/<key_file.json>:ro mrkylesmith/ripples_pipeline_dev:latest
```
**IMPORTANT NOTE:  I would recommend you keep the generated name of the `<keys.json>` file you downloaded, and make sure the naming of all the `<keys.json>` match in the two commands above, and in your `ripples.yaml` configuration file below, under the `key_file` field, that you will setup once you enter the Docker shell.**

This will drop you into Docker shell where you can launch RIPPLES jobs on GCP.
```
cp template/ripples.yaml .
```
Add all RIPPLES runtime parameters and GCP machine configurations to your ripples.yaml file.
Set configurations for the current RIPPLES job you want to run in `ripples.yaml`, which you already copied from `template` into the working directory of the Docker shell: `usher/scripts/recombination`
```
# GCP credentials
bucket_id: 
project_id: 
# Make sure key_file matches /tmp/keys/<key_file.json> 
key_file: 

# GCP machine and Storage Bucket config
instances: 
boot_disk_size: 100
# Keep machine type the same for now
machine_type: e2-standard-16

# Format job_name/logging (follow this format of top_folder_name/logging)  
# Format job_name/results (follow this format of top_folder_name/results)
# <job_name> can be anything that doens't exist in bucket already
logging: 
results: 

# Ripples parameters config [REQURIED]
version: ripples-fast
mat: 
# Naming for Newick tree that will be generated by pipeline
newick: gisaidAndPublic.$date.nwk
metadata:
# In format: 2022-08-14
date: 
reference: reference.fa

# Ripples parameters
num_descendants: 5

```

**Note:** The following files with the same naming from the above config need to be placed in GCP Storage Bucket (`bucket_id`) ahead of time:
- `mat`
- `metadata`
- `raw sequence files:`
    - `gisaid_fullNames_$date.fa.xz`
    - `metadata_batch_$date.tsv.gz`
    - `ncbi.$date/cog_all.fasta.xz`
    - `cogUk.$date/genbank.fa.xz`

<br>



To launch the RIPPLES job on GCP instances simply run the following command:
```
python3 run.py
```

If you have filled out all fields in the `ripples.yaml` configuration file and also if your Service Account credentials have been setup correctly, `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable and `<key_file.json>` are passed correctly through volume into Docker container, then you should see the following message at the command line after running `python3 run.py`

![Tux, the Linux mascot](images/ripples_gcp_auth.png)

After this the pipeline will begin, starting with copying the necessary input files from your GCP storage bucket.


### RIPPLES Workflow Diagram
```mermaid
graph LR;
*MAT --> init
init --> GCP_Instance_1;
init --> GCP_Instance_2;
init --> GCP_Instance_3;
init --> GCP_Instance_4;
init --> Chronumental;
GCP_Instance_1 --> Filtration/QC_1;
GCP_Instance_2 --> Filtration/QC_2;
GCP_Instance_3 --> Filtration/QC_3;
GCP_Instance_4 --> Filtration/QC_4;
Filtration/QC_1 --> Recombinant_Aggregator;
Filtration/QC_2 --> Recombinant_Aggregator;
Filtration/QC_3 --> Recombinant_Aggregator;
Filtration/QC_4 --> Recombinant_Aggregator;
Recombinant_Aggregator --> Ranked_Recombinants_List;
Chronumental --> Inferred_internal_dates;
Inferred_internal_dates --> Recombinant_Aggregator; 


Ranked_Recombinants_List --> Recombinant_TrackerUI_backend;

style init fill:#bbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
style Chronumental fill:#bbf,stroke:#f66,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff,stroke-dasharray: 5 5

```

*There are additional inputs to the pipeline along with the MAT, see description of inputs in `ripples.yaml` file above.

Above is a high level overview of the pipeline.  For more documentation on each step please see link below:
TODO: Add link to pipeline docs


### RIPPLES Pipeline Results
The pipeline will create a local results directory, based on the name given in `ripples.yaml`

<br>

## Generate additional data files needed for Recombination Tracker UI


You will need these two files, the final recombinant text file and generated VCF file to display visualizations.


## Visualize RIPPLES results with Recombination Tracker
Run the following command to create a local server and view Recombination Tracker in browser
```
python3 app.py -v <vcf_file.vcf> -r <final_recombinant_file.txt>
```

### Example:
To view an example of the Recombination Dashboard visulization there is example recombination data files in `example` directory.
Run the following command and past URL to browser to see the visualization.
```
python3 app.py -v example/recombinant_trio_snps.vcf -r example/recomb_2022-08-14_n5.txt
```

Commit message:

a few RIVET updates, example visual/data

README.md, after:

# SARS-CoV-2 Recombination Detection Workflow using RIPPLES

RIPPLES is a program to detect recombination events in large mutation annotated trees (MAT). This repo contains a workflow for running RIPPLES on Google Cloud Platform.

<br>

### Setup Google Cloud Platform Account and Service Account Keys
Please see GCP setup docs here: [GCP Setup Docs](docs/gcp_setup.md)
___

## Recombinant Detection Workflow
Currently the entire recombination pipeline, with ranking, exists at the pre-built public docker image.

The Dockerfile also contains all the necessary installs to run the fill pipeline, and thus the entire workflow can be completed within a Docker shell and the results will be saved locally inside the shell and on remote GCP storage bucket at the specified location when the pipeline completes.


Launch the Docker shell with the following two commands.

- Put your service account key file in the corresponding location or update the location in the command below:
```
KEY=~/.config/gcloud/<key_file.json>
docker run -it -e GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/tmp/keys/<key_file.json> -v ${KEY}:/tmp/keys/<key_file.json>:ro mrkylesmith/ripples_pipeline_dev:latest
```
**IMPORTANT NOTE:  I would recommend you keep the generated name of the `<keys.json>` file you downloaded, and make sure the naming of all the `<keys.json>` match in the two commands above, and in your `ripples.yaml` configuration file below, under the `key_file` field, that you will setup once you enter the Docker shell.**

This will drop you into Docker shell where you can launch RIPPLES jobs on GCP.
```
cp template/ripples.yaml .
```
Add all RIPPLES runtime parameters and GCP machine configurations to your ripples.yaml file.
Set configurations for the current RIPPLES job you want to run in `ripples.yaml`, which you already copied from `template` into the working directory of the Docker shell: `usher/scripts/recombination`
```
# GCP credentials
bucket_id: 
project_id: 
# Make sure key_file matches /tmp/keys/<key_file.json> 
key_file: 

# GCP machine and Storage Bucket config
instances: 
boot_disk_size: 100
# Keep machine type the same for now
machine_type: e2-standard-16

# Format job_name/logging (follow this format of top_folder_name/logging)  
# Format job_name/results (follow this format of top_folder_name/results)
# <job_name> can be anything that doens't exist in bucket already
logging: 
results: 

# Ripples parameters config [REQURIED]
version: ripples-fast
mat: 
# Naming for Newick tree that will be generated by pipeline
newick: gisaidAndPublic.$date.nwk
metadata:
# In format: 2022-08-14
date: 
reference: reference.fa

# Ripples parameters
num_descendants: 5

```

### Using Large Private MAT (Gisaid) vs Public MAT
The RIPPLES job should work the same from a user perspective whichever private or public MAT you use, however you should expect far less detected recombinants in the public MAT results and please see the note below about visualization.

**Note:** The following files with the same naming from the above config need to be placed in GCP Storage Bucket (`bucket_id`) ahead of time:
- `mat`
- `metadata`
- `raw sequence files:`
    - `gisaid_fullNames_$date.fa.xz`
    - `metadata_batch_$date.tsv.gz`
    - `ncbi.$date/cog_all.fasta.xz`
    - `cogUk.$date/genbank.fa.xz`

<br>

**Note: At this time, using a Gisaid MAT will NOT enable a Taxonium Tree view for the Recombinant Tracker visualization.  If you want to see recombinants on Taxonium tree, use a public MAT.**







To launch the RIPPLES job on GCP instances simply run the following command:
```
python3 run.py
```

If you have filled out all fields in the `ripples.yaml` configuration file and also if your Service Account credentials have been setup correctly, `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` environment variable and `<key_file.json>` are passed correctly through volume into Docker container, then you should see the following message at the command line after running `python3 run.py`

![Tux, the Linux mascot](images/ripples_gcp_auth.png)

After this the pipeline will begin, starting with copying the necessary input files from your GCP storage bucket.


### RIPPLES Workflow Diagram
```mermaid
graph LR;
*MAT --> init
init --> GCP_Instance_1;
init --> GCP_Instance_2;
init --> GCP_Instance_3;
init --> GCP_Instance_4;
init --> Chronumental;
GCP_Instance_1 --> Filtration/QC_1;
GCP_Instance_2 --> Filtration/QC_2;
GCP_Instance_3 --> Filtration/QC_3;
GCP_Instance_4 --> Filtration/QC_4;
Filtration/QC_1 --> Recombinant_Aggregator;
Filtration/QC_2 --> Recombinant_Aggregator;
Filtration/QC_3 --> Recombinant_Aggregator;
Filtration/QC_4 --> Recombinant_Aggregator;
Recombinant_Aggregator --> Ranked_Recombinants_List;
Chronumental --> Inferred_internal_dates;
Inferred_internal_dates --> Recombinant_Aggregator; 


Ranked_Recombinants_List --> Recombinant_TrackerUI_backend;

style init fill:#bbf,stroke:#333,stroke-width:4px
style Chronumental fill:#bbf,stroke:#f66,stroke-width:2px,color:#fff,stroke-dasharray: 5 5

```

*There are additional inputs to the pipeline along with the MAT, see description of inputs in `ripples.yaml` file above.

Above is a high level overview of the pipeline.  For more documentation on each step please see link below:
TODO: Add link to pipeline docs


### RIPPLES Pipeline Results
The pipeline will create a local results directory, based on the name given in `ripples.yaml`

<br>

## Generate additional data files needed for RIVET


You will need these three files, the final recombinant results text file, generated VCF file containing the SNPS of each trio node, and a TSV file containing sample descendants for each recombinant node.


# RIVET: RecombInation ViEwer and Tracker

### Activate Environment
Run the following commands to activate necessary Conda env.
```
conda env create -f install/rivet_env.yml
conda activate rivet
```


Run the following command to create a local server and view Recombination Tracker in browser
```
python3 app.py -v <vcf_file.vcf> -r <final_recombinant_file.txt> -d <sample_descendants.tsv>
```
Type the following help command to see these options and their descriptions:
```
python3 app.py --help
```

### Example:
To view an example  there is example recombination data files in `example` directory.
Run the following command and past URL to browser to see the visualization.
```
python3 app.py -v example/trio_snps_10_22_22.vcf -r example/final_recombinants_10_20_22.txt -d example/samples_descendants_10_22_22.tsv
```
